README.md, before:

# Docker production ready NGINX Container (servercontainers/nginx)
_maintained by ServerContainers_

[FAQ - All you need to know about the servercontainers Containers](https://marvin.im/docker-faq-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-marvambass-containers/)

## What is it

This Dockerfile (available as ___servercontainers/nginx___) gives you a NGINX on alpine. It is also possible to configure an auto lets encrypt certificate or self signed certificate and reverse proxy mechanism.

For Configuration of the Server you use environment Variables.

It's based on the [nginx:alpine](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/nginx:alpine/) Image

View in Docker Registry [servercontainers/nginx](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/servercontainers/nginx/)

View in GitHub [ServerContainers/nginx](https://github.com/ServerContainers/nginx)

## Environment variables and defaults

### NGINX

All options for the OpenSSL Stuff

* __NGINX\_CONFIG\_myconfigname__
    * multiple variables/confgurations possible by adding unique configname to NGINX_CONFIG_
    * adds a new nginx configuration
    * __server\_name__ is required
    * example:
        * "server {server_name localhost; location / {root /data; index index.html;}}"
    * by default http redirects to ssl, ssl options get injected

to get an a+ rating at the qualys ssl test you need to set the __Strict-Transport-Security__
inside your nginx configuration like this:

    # only this domain
    add_header Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=31536000";
    # apply also on subdomains
    add_header Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=31536000; includeSubdomains";

* __NGINX\_RAW\_CONFIG\_myconfigname__
    * multiple variables/confgurations possible by adding unique configname to NGINX_RAW_CONFIG_
    * adds a new nginx configuration without any modification
    * example:
        * "server {listen 80; listen [::]:80; server_name example.com; return 301 https://www.example.com;}"

### HTACCESS

* __HTACCESS\_ACCOUNT\_username__
    * multiple variables/accounts possible
    * adds a new htaccess account with the given username and the env value as password
    * htaccess file will be saved at __/conf/auth.htpasswd__

to enable authentication add the following to your nginx config _(inside or outside the location tag)_:

    auth_basic "Restricted Area"; auth_basic_user_file /conf/auth.htpasswd;


### ACME (Googles golang Let's Encrypt Client)

You need to accept the terms of the certificate authority, look inside to logs to find the URL where you get the current version.

    Terms:		 https://letsencrypt.org/documents/LE-SA-v1.1.1-August-1-2016.pdf

* __SSL\_ACME\_REGISTER\_MAIL__
    * set this to your email to get notifications from the certificate authority
    * needs to be set to enable the ACME client

### OpenSSL

All options for the OpenSSL Stuff

* __DH\_SIZE__
    * no default - needed only if you don't trust my shipped 4096 version.
    * if set a new one with given size is generated
    * only use a number as value

# Specials

## Docker Registry proxy with Basic Auth

You can indeed use this container as a Docker Registry Proxy with Basic Authentication.
Just add some Accounts with the __HTACCESS\_ACCOUNT\_username__ variables and take a look at the following __NGINX\_CONFIG\_myconfigname__ configuration.

    HTACCESS_ACCOUNT_marvin=MyRegistRyPasSwOrD
    NGINX_CONFIG_myDockerRegistry="upstream docker-registry {server registry:5000;} server {server_name registry.example.com; include /etc/nginx/snippets/docker-registry-proxy.conf;}"

You need to specify the docker registry upstream, add a server_name necessary for the certificate generation.
Most importantly include the file __include /etc/nginx/snippets/docker-registry-proxy.conf;__ inside your server statement.

Thats all - now you have a working docker registry proxy with ssl, basic auth!

Commit message:

added default docker-compose - fixed a lot of bugs

README.md, after:

# Docker production ready NGINX Container (servercontainers/nginx)
_maintained by ServerContainers_

[FAQ - All you need to know about the servercontainers Containers](https://marvin.im/docker-faq-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-marvambass-containers/)

## What is it

This Dockerfile (available as ___servercontainers/nginx___) gives you a NGINX on alpine. It is also possible to configure an auto lets encrypt certificate or self signed certificate and reverse proxy mechanism.

For Configuration of the Server you use environment Variables.

It's based on the [nginx:alpine](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/nginx:alpine/) Image

View in Docker Registry [servercontainers/nginx](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/servercontainers/nginx/)

View in GitHub [ServerContainers/nginx](https://github.com/ServerContainers/nginx)

## Usage

You can try this container with the provided _docker\_compose.yml_ which starts an mysql container with phpmyadmin
and adds a reverse proxy location to the nginx.

So you can open the phpmyadmin SSL protected at https://localhost/phpmyadmin/

## Environment variables and defaults

### NGINX

All options for the OpenSSL Stuff

* __NGINX\_CONFIG\_myconfigname__
    * multiple variables/confgurations possible by adding unique configname to NGINX_CONFIG_
    * adds a new nginx configuration
    * __server\_name__ is required
    * example:
        * "server {server_name localhost; location / {root /data; index index.html;}}"
    * by default http redirects to ssl, ssl options get injected

to get an a+ rating at the qualys ssl test you need to set the __Strict-Transport-Security__
inside your nginx configuration like this:

    # only this domain
    add_header Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=31536000";
    # apply also on subdomains
    add_header Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=31536000; includeSubdomains";

* __NGINX\_RAW\_CONFIG\_myconfigname__
    * multiple variables/confgurations possible by adding unique configname to NGINX_RAW_CONFIG_
    * adds a new nginx configuration without any modification
    * example:
        * "server {listen 80; listen [::]:80; server_name example.com; return 301 https://www.example.com;}"

### HTACCESS

* __HTACCESS\_ACCOUNT\_username__
    * multiple variables/accounts possible
    * adds a new htaccess account with the given username and the env value as password
    * htaccess file will be saved at __/conf/auth.htpasswd__

to enable authentication add the following to your nginx config _(inside or outside the location tag)_:

    auth_basic "Restricted Area"; auth_basic_user_file /conf/auth.htpasswd;


### ACME (Googles golang Let's Encrypt Client)

You need to accept the terms of the certificate authority, look inside to logs to find the URL where you get the current version.

    Terms:		 https://letsencrypt.org/documents/LE-SA-v1.1.1-August-1-2016.pdf

* __SSL\_ACME\_REGISTER\_MAIL__
    * set this to your email to get notifications from the certificate authority
    * needs to be set to enable the ACME client

### OpenSSL

All options for the OpenSSL Stuff

* __DH\_SIZE__
    * no default - needed only if you don't trust my shipped 4096 version.
    * if set a new one with given size is generated
    * only use a number as value

# Specials

## Docker Registry proxy with Basic Auth

You can indeed use this container as a Docker Registry Proxy with Basic Authentication.
Just add some Accounts with the __HTACCESS\_ACCOUNT\_username__ variables and take a look at the following __NGINX\_CONFIG\_myconfigname__ configuration.

    HTACCESS_ACCOUNT_marvin=MyRegistRyPasSwOrD
    NGINX_CONFIG_myDockerRegistry="upstream docker-registry {server registry:5000;} server {server_name registry.example.com; include /etc/nginx/snippets/docker-registry-proxy.conf;}"

You need to specify the docker registry upstream, add a server_name necessary for the certificate generation.
Most importantly include the file __include /etc/nginx/snippets/docker-registry-proxy.conf;__ inside your server statement.

Thats all - now you have a working docker registry proxy with ssl, basic auth!
